Kyrgyz and Hungarian relations have been a somewhat neglected area of our system of foreign relations.

For us the importance of a country is not only determined by its population, the size of its territory, or its GDP per capita, but also by its cultural achievements.

A long time ago the kyrgyz and hungarians were part of the same people.

Our fates were intertwined not only in the distant past, but also more recently.

The agreements signed today include the setting up of a Kyrgyz and Hungarian development fund worth 50 million dollars finance cooperation between two countries.

Today the greatest obstacle to experiencing in daily life the shared origins and friendship between our two nations is geographical distance. 

If we want this feeling of kinship and relations between us to be part of daily life and not simply the privilege of diplomacy, we must link the two countries with a direct air route.

We must establish a direct air route between Bishkek and Budapest.

Hungary provides 75 state scholarships for Kyrgyz students. We have agreed to raise this number to 150.

Hungary will be given an opportunity to invest in certain sectors in Kyrgyzstan, the Hungarian economy will take this opportunity and we will also appear in the Kyrgyz economy's market wherever we have the appropriate technology.

The basic approach is still unchanged because they would like to manage the migration and not to stop the migrants.

Nobody can step on the ground of the EU without having a permission to do so because their request for asylum is accepted. Until that moment they have to stay out of the territory of the EU.

We can only succeed when we are in alliance with one another and never when we turn against one another but when we are in alliance we will always succeed.

If we fail to arrange this regions affairs then instead outsiders will organize them no country on its own however is capable of structuring this region that task requires at least 4 countries Slovakia Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary.

Slovakia is our third most important foreign trade partner. There are some 840 Slovak businesses operating in Hungary and providing jobs for 4225 people.

Hungary supports Poland's efforts with regard to Belarus.

Democracy is important and human rights are important but demanding this will not be enough. Strategic approach is needed.

Our interest that the entire economy of Central Europe continues to function.

We are making our countries and the whole region the most liveable in Europe in other words we are eliminating the disadvantages we accumulated as a result of communism.

At the time of the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, Hungary was in a position to be able to offer help to those of its neighbours who were in most trouble we also helped Slovenians out slovenians are a grateful nation and they havent forgotten this.

Slovenian and Hungarian relations is much better than at any time in the past.

We will lay long-term foundations for Slovenian and Hungarian cooperation which will remain strong and enduring regardless of the party family the governing parties or prime ministers of the day belong to.

If Hungary wants access to Italian gas pipelines it can do so via Slovenia this is another stalled programme our air transport links are rather rudimentary and the transformation of aviation is also in progress.
 
There is a Hungarian national community living in Slovenia and a Slovenian national community living in Hungary we cooperated well in this area with previous governments and now we have agreed to continue and extend these programmes, so Hungarians living in Slovenia and Slovenians living in Hungary will live their lives with improved conditions in school systems cultural provision transport and opportunities for crossing the border.

We must unhesitatingly admit Serbia to the EU as soon as possible because without Serbia, Europe's security structure is not complete. There is a gap in the system to give you a tangible example this is also where migrants are coming through so that is a country which should belong to Europe and the EU.

Around the world we can see that the big boys, and there are only two of them, the Americans and the Chinese have overtaken us the EU which was once in the sphere of leading nations or leading organisations has been left behind this is because they have the military capacity which makes continuous scientific renewal possible the modern worlds greatest inventions these technological inventions and modern gadgets the Internet, GPS, iPads  which determine the pace and development of the modern economy usually enter the civilian sphere from defence industry research.

The notion that we would able to compete with the Chinese and the Americans through high tech research in the civilian sphere was widespread in Europe ten years ago but that approach has failed.
 
We will not be able to rise to the same level as the great powers that determine the speed and direction of technology until there is a European Army and a corresponding background research capacity in Europe at present any aspirations in this regard are extremely rudimentary and require a European Military Force.

Why do not European Goods sell well because their standards are not as high as they once were or because the standards of our competitors products are higher, because the prices we charge for them are too high, our taxes are too high, and bureaucracy abounds so the European Economy must be streamlined to make it competitive with the countries that are increasingly catching up with us or are even overtaking us.

The good news is that an economic success story is promised by the whole of the Central European Economy, the entire V4 with Slovenia and Croatia around them under the leadership of the Polish because the Polish Economy is the most robust in Central Europe.

The leaders of the two countries are committing themselves personally to slowly but surely bettering the lives of Slovenes in Hungary and Hungarians living in Slovenia this is good news, we are making much better progress and we have found a smoother form of cooperation, one built on mutual trust and national friendship with the present government.

EU's emergency financial plan is not needed because of us so I would like to emphasize that a new additional European financial plan is not needed because of us this plan is needed because there are countries in the EU that are unable to keep their state debt under control and are mired in debt the question is whether we can help those countries and although hungary is instinctively opposed to collective borrowing we see that there are countries that need help now and so we accept the EU's approach on joint borrowing.

We need an intelligent financial alliance between the nation states between the member states of the EU.

I personally support President Trump in America because he is the only one I see as being able to put the American Economy on track after the pandemic, so these are just the sort of leaders we need right now and this is what we have got here in V4 now.

We live down there in the South on the border for migration and we see what is happening and we see migration pressure intensifying day by day we need to catch an increasing number of illegal people smugglers at our border fences the number of illegal entry attempts is growing day by day and the incidence of epidemic disease on the migration route is also continuously increasing so I see that in the year ahead our task will now be to overcome the pandemic then relaunch the economy and then deal with increased migration pressure.
 
Slovakia is Hungary's third most important trading partner we are used to looking to the Germans, the Austrians, and America, but the truth is that our third most important trading partner is Slovakia last year the volume of trade between the two countries exceeded 10 billion euro which is a very serious matter and a significant amount by international comparison.

We would like them to be able to create investments in Hungary together with Hungarians or even independently we have therefore opened a 600 million euro credit line with Eximbank which we can increase if necessary.

I attach geostrategic importance to the volume of gas transported through existing Slovak and Hungarian gas pipelines and to a significant expansion an approximate tripling of the interconnector system these are developments which determine not only the security of the two countries but that of the entire region.

We support the EU's eastern partnership strategy in which Belarus is a participant. This strategy cannot be built with sanctions and so Hungary represents the position that the EU should finally lift its sanctions against Belarus.

Economic and trade cooperation between the EU and the Eurasian Economic Union is in Europe's interest.
 
The Minsk Protocol is the only hope for a settlement of the situation in Ukraine.
 
We have confirmed our agreement that Belarus plays an important role in the energy security of our country of Hungary, all Hungary's oil imports are carried by a pipeline passing through your country.

Hungary have opened a credit line of 40 million euro at Eximbank to finance cooperation between Belarusian and Hungarian companies we are proud that a large Hungarian company Bábolna plays a major role in your food industry.

I would also like to inform you that half of Hungarian exports to your country are pharmaceutical products which is proof of the Hungarian economy's high level of technological development we also welcome the fact that wizzair will soon start running flights between our two capital cities. Hungary supports Belarus accession to the world trade organization and that we also support the signing of a Belarus and NATO security agreement and finally nuclear energy represents a separate major area for cooperation between our two peoples and our two governments we reject the discriminatory approach to nuclear energy our two countries have decided to establish close engineering and technical cooperation in this field. We are closely observing developments at your power plant in Astravets which will start power generation soon because the paks two nuclear power plant under construction in Hungary is being built with similar technology.

Hungary awards Hungarian State Scholarships to 50 Belarusian students.
 
Hungary is committed to supporting Serbia's European integration efforts. We expect the institutions in Brussels to open the 6 negotiating chapters that Serbia is ready to open.
 
Hungary will support Serbian investment in Hungary and I am pleased to report that there are such Serbian investments in Hungary. Our Eximbank has opened a credit line of 100 million euro so that we can support cooperation between Serbian and Hungarian companies. I see that construction of the rail link between Budapest and Belgrade has also entered a phase of more rapid progress.
 
Everyone could see that bringing Chinese goods into Europe would be one of the key questions in the future and that this rail line would help to accelerate this, we will also see the construction of a joint gas pipeline enabling Hungary to receive some of its gas from you the Serbs from the territory of Serbia.

We are convinced that a strong healthy dynamically developing Serbia is a fundamental interest for Hungary.

Our two countries have decided to launch a direct service a direct air route between Chișinau and Budapest our two capital cities by the autumn we must have a direct air connection between our two capitals because without this due to the great distance everything we say about economic cooperation is just hot air or a dead letter.

In just 40 days, we have had to respond to more than 5000 illegal entry attempts. Some of these were not by lone individuals but by organized groups. Some even managed to break through and advance a few meters, while others lined up at the border but we did not open the border and so they could not get in we expect this trend to intensify with increasing numbers and an increasing level of organization as the weather improves more and more of them will come currently potentially as many as 100,000 migrants want to enter Europe.

I would like the Slovak people to know that here we are defending not only the border of Hungary, but also the border of Slovakia.
 
Every year German and Hungarian trade has reached new peaks the figure for 2019 will exceed 55 billion euros.
 
As far as enlargement is concerned you know that Hungary is a spokesman for enlargement of course now everyone is talking about Macedonia and Albania which is justified understandable and right but I will draw the chancellors attention to the fact that the key country in relation to the integration of the entire Western Balkans is Serbia. The Serbian negotiations negotiations with the Serbs must be accelerated as soon as possible and taken to their final stage because only their accession can guarantee the stability of the Western Balkans.

National identity is a precondition of national conservatism and any success if I understand correctly the intention of politics. I am not arguing in favor of China. I am not arguing in favor of Russia. I am not arguing in favor of Turkey. But they are success stories in their own way and look at them how they are managed there are different recipes how to do it but all of them first started to restrengthen their national identity. Without having a strong national identity, you simply cannot be successful in the modern age.

Even if you are in opposition you have to serve the nation because the nation is something above you. Okay I am not an expert in America but if I understand American Politics correctly, many people hate Donald Trump and love their own nation and I think it is getting more and more legitimate in Hungary probably there are some people who hate me more than how much they like the nation but it is illegitimate to say it. Because somehow the standard is that loving the nation is a must to serve the nation is a must because what else could be more important if you were born as a Hungarian.

We are accused of being populists and when I was young 20 years ago populism had a very clear meaning that if a politician promises something but is not able to deliver that is populism. But if a politician promises something and then delivers it is not populism. It is democracy.
 
First in 2008 during the financial crisis in Europe liberal governments failed they were not able to regulate their economy in a proper way and they were not able to defend their own economy against the crisis.

In 2015, the liberal governments failed a second time, which was the migration crisis and the liberal governments failed to protect their own citizens. They failed to protect their own borders and the security of their own citizens and stop illegal migration, so it means that liberal governments failed liberal democracy in that sense is over.
 
I would like to mention that the reason why we think that Christian Democracy is a good description for us is that the universal Catholic Approach is the only one.  I am a Calvinist anyway, the only one which appreciates and accepts national sovereignty.
 
It is a global idea but considers sovereign states valuable that is the reason why in Hungary where 75 percent are Catholic and 25 percent are Calvinists. We are able to cooperate for national sovereignty on a Christian Democratic basis that creates a national unity for national sovereignty as we understand.
 
The economic growth rate of the EU is basically provided by Central Europe. I think when I am speaking about the success of Hungary, certainly I am a little biased but I have to mention that all the other countries around us are very successful. The Slovaks do well. The Czechs excellently, the Polish are stronger than ever, Croats are catching up the Serbs, try to join the EU so what I represent here is not just a success story of a country but a success story of a region.

Ukraine cannot be considered as part of the Central European success story because they are just fighting for their survival because of the different geopolitical situation.

In Hungary, we have Muslim migrants that amount to zero, so we do not have any the Hungarian situation is totally different from that of the Western countries and the Southern countries. It is pure mathematics to understand to where the Western countries will develop in terms of demography and composition of their societies. It is obvious that they will create, will develop or evolve a society, which will be a composition of a big Muslim community, which is growing and a Christian Community which is decreasing. That is how the Western countries will look like whether we like it or not. So the outcome in many countries is a society, a new type of society, consisting of a decreasing Christian element and an increasing Muslim element. The liberals support that process because the liberals think it is good, they do not like Christian society, they do not like the identity as we understand societies, so they think that the new composition of Western societies would provide a nicer life, a better life than it was during the so called Christian Europe.

In Central Europe, we have a different approach, we do not know whether they are right or not. Probably their life and their society will be happier as a mixed society, probably but we would not like to take the risk.
  
Migration is bad because it is a real danger but on the other side it generated disputes which provided a chance for us to explain who we are and raise the question that without defining who we are, again we cannot be successful and competitive with those nations as I mentioned, who are just strengthening their own national identity.

Majority means that you have a majority of the opinion of the people and the migration issue is a good cause for Christian democrats and national conservatives to explain again to the people what is at stake, what is really important, and how we imagine the future.

Budget includes injustices, such as Brussels continuing the bad practice of the past seven years, whereby poorer countries share of the funding distributed from Brussels is only 5 per cent even though our countries account for 20 per cent of Europe's population. We must provide the budget with equitable foundations. We want a fair budget and if this is achieved then within it the Hungarians will find the arithmetic the combination of figures that is favorable to us. I have just come back from Portugal where we held talks with 17 other member states who have similar problems with the conceptual intellectual and theoretical foundations of the budget overall the European economy's competitiveness has fallen in global terms and we must pay the price for this the withdrawal of the British and the fact that everyone in the UK is still alive today indicates that there is also life outside the EU. The European Economy has been losing its competitiveness in recent years as a result of mistaken economic policy conducted from Brussels, no tax reduction, no reduction of bureaucracy, no decisions in favor of improving competitiveness, just the opposite to limit the competitiveness even inside of EU. We will pay the price of that in the global markets. We are not able to create a fair and better budget as we have had in the previous 7 years, we cannot accelerate economic growth in the EU, consequently we cannot help our citizens to have better living conditions. We have to first clarify how to get back the ability to compete with the outside world we need a budget which provides as much flexibility as possible for the member states to encourage those countries who are ready to decrease taxation. I think flexibility and decreasing taxes that is the main line  rather than isolating ourselves we in the V4 seek cooperation with Europe's other countries. My feeling that Austria is a natural partner of Hungary and the V4 was strengthened, and I also saw that Austria will remain an important country for Central Europe as an investor as a market and as a trade partner.

In the future, Austria will be a key security partner of ours because on the issue of migration. We are in the same boat.

If migrants break through via Hungary, they will arrive in Austria and then they will either stay there or move on to Germany, so I am convinced that Austria continues to have an interest in the successful defence of Hungary's Southern borders. I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for the help we received when Austrian border guards came to Hungary's Southern border to assist in border defense. We should also invite the Western Balkan countries aiming to join the EU regardless of the fact that they are not yet members of the EU, the issue of the future of Europe also affects them. The fact of the matter is that missile attacks have struck military bases occupied by American Military personnel, Hungarian Soldiers are also stationed at one of these bases not a single Hungarian soldier has been injured. We decided to send over a senior military leader who has since arrived and taken command of the troops. There the minister informed us that all conditions are in place for the immediate evacuation of Hungarian soldiers should that prove to be necessary, the means needed for such an airborne evacuation are already in place.

The question is whether or not we should withdraw in essence, we see this as being conditional on an intergovernmental agreement, the international legal grounds and I think also perhaps the domestic legal grounds for the deployment of Hungarian soldiers in Iraq is that the Hungarian government has entered into an agreement with the Iraqi government on our soldiers being able to be based there and yesterday we decided that we shall continue to fulfil our treaty obligations until such time as the Iraqis terminate the agreement if the Iraqi government terminates the agreement. We will immediately evacuate the Hungarian soldiers.
 
We looked at what has been happening in Turkey, the Turkish immigration directorates annual summary states that 450,000 people entered Turkey illegally in 2019. This was an increase of 70 percent on the previous year accordingly or as a consequence compared with the previous year. There has also been a dramatic increase. 180 percent in the number of migrants heading for Greece. The logical consequence of this has been an increase in the number of migrants on the Balkan route. Consequently more and more people are heading due north towards the Hungarian and Serbian border. As a result, migration pressures at the Hungarian border have increased significantly,  we have also had to deal with this issue because last week the number of attempts to cross the border illegally exceeded 100 per day, so every day we need to intercept more than 100 people crossing the border illegally. We need to intercept them detain them and then transport them back the police need to eject them as it were to open the gates of the transit zone enabling them to return to Serbia in order to do this work. We need to increase the number of soldiers and police officers serving on the Serbian and Hungarian border and yesterday we decided to send further units to the border and deploy further police officers to the area. We have activated the border defense agreement concluded among the V4 countries, so the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia will be able to provide us with immediate assistance, if needed and we decided to provide immediate assistance to Macedonia and arranged for a police contingent to be sent to that country, the total investment sum for this is 1700 billion forints, I only mention this because it is the highest level of investment ever made in Hungary. Last year 38 percent of new jobs in Hungary were linked to investments originating in Asia, so in 2019, 38 percent of new jobs in Hungary were created by investments that came to this country from China, Korea and Japan. I said that I consider this to be a vindication because clearly the publicly declared policy of eastward opening is coming to fruition with investments made in Hungary incidentally in 2019, the largest investors in Hungary were the Koreans.

As regards climate protection, yesterday the government discussed the country's climate strategy together with its energy strategy this is because in Minister Palkovics view these 2 issues can only be dealt with together, we were introduced to the climate change action plan presented to us by the Minister and we adopted it. We also adopted the new national energy strategy and the new national energy and climate protection plan . We know of 21 countries in the world which have been able to produce significant economic growth while also reducing their carbon dioxide emissions, there are 21 such countries out of the worlds, 200, and Hungary is one of these 21 countries.

Comparing the European States in terms of their climate protection performance we can say that Hungary is in the top third.
 
We have carried out the necessary calculation and we can state that Hungary could be converted into a country with a climate neutral economy by 2050 but this would cost 50,000 billion forints. This shows that climate protection is extremely important but also extremely expensive. It is possible and it is worth it but this is the amount of money we must raise.
 
We must openly state that in Europe, we cannot build a climate neutral economy without nuclear energy and the use of nuclear energy should be supported not restricted.
 
The growth center of the whole of the EU is shifting to the East to Central Europe for a long time. Now we have no longer been talking about the German and French axis in the EU. Western Europe's relationship with the countries of Central Europe is at least as important as the German and French relationship, so the whole region is in the process of upgrading, and when a region is upgraded, large and strong countries try to gain influence there, and so the important countries and regions also become the scene of geopolitical matches.
 
It is not used to talk about it in public but the truth is that today Central Europe is also the scene of geopolitical matches precisely because of its appreciation. We can identify Russian, German, American, Turkish steps to influence. We must take this as a natural thing. It is not a problem but a good sign. It is a question of this region becoming important and being upgraded.
 
We all know that in Central Europe but perhaps across the continent in geopolitical matches, energy policy is a special medium and terrain, so if we connect the systems of the power lines of the two countries today or start the necessary investment, then we are basically strengthening our position in the geopolitical matches.

If in the future, it were possible to reach agreement on the significant strengthening and interconnection of the gas pipeline network between Slovenia and Hungary, it would also have geopolitical significance and I hope that the two governments will then be able to agree on this. If we could significantly increase rail links between the two countries, between Slovenia and Hungary, then we also have geopolitical significance and it leads us to the fact that this can increase the independence the sovereignty of the two countries and that we can become more protected from geopolitical matches. We will be better able to assert our own interests. It is therefore my conviction that what is happening here now is a common interest a Slovenian and Hungarian interest, and at the same time Central European interest.

For the Hungarians, this is an important investment for one more reason today, the price of electricity and gas is a particular political issue in Hungary, which is what we call the policy of reducing ancillary costs at home and in 2010, when I returned to government, Hungary paid the 17. highest price for electricity in the European ranking the 16. for the gas. Today gas is the cheapest in Europe, in Hungary and electricity is the second cheapest for private consumers. It is therefore an important matter for us that our energy system is in order and flexible connected to others and that there are no disturbances in operation that increase the price of electricity because the Hungarians have already become accustomed to households receiving energy as cheaply as possible.
